# 3-2-1: On mistakes of ambition vs. sloth, innovation, and being reliable

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

I.

“Your 1st blog post will be bad, but your 1000th will be great.

Your 1st workout will be weak, but your 1000th will be strong.

Your 1st meditation will be scattered, but your 1000th will be focused.

Put in your reps.”

[Share this on Twitter](https://ctt.ac/44jYw)

---

II.

“Make mistakes of ambition and not mistakes of sloth.”  
—Machiavelli

“Mistakes of ambition:  
-failing on a big goal  
-creating something nobody wants

Mistakes of sloth:  
-not attempting a big goal  
-consuming instead of creating

Mistakes of ambition teach. Mistakes of sloth comfort.”

---

III.

It’s crazy how often I feel like I need to resolve some big problem in my life when all I really need is one of the following:

1. A glass of water  
2. A 10-minute walk outside  
3. A good night of sleep

Three simple things that resolve many of the stresses and anxieties of daily life.

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

**Stewart Butterfield**, the founder of Slack, on the true definition of innovation:

“The best — maybe the only? — real, direct measure of ‘innovation' is change in human behaviour. In fact, it is useful to take this way of thinking as definitional: innovation is the sum of change across the whole system, not a thing which causes a change in how people behave. No small innovation ever caused a large shift in how people spend their time and no large one has ever failed to do so.”

*Source: [We Don’t Sell Saddles Here](https://medium.com/@stewart/we-dont-sell-saddles-here-4c59524d650d)*

---

II.

**Charlie Munger** on the importance of being reliable:

“[If you want to guarantee a life of misery], be unreliable. Do not faithfully do what you have engaged to do. If you will only master this one habit you will more than counterbalance the combined effect of all your virtues, howsoever great. If you like being distrusted and excluded from the best human contribution and company, this prescription is for you. Master this one habit and you can always play the role of the hare in the fable, except that instead of being outrun by one fine turtle you will be outrun by hordes and hordes of mediocre turtles and even by some mediocre turtles on crutches.

“I must warn you that if you [do the opposite] it may be hard to end up miserable, even if you start disadvantaged. I had a roommate in college who was and is severely dyslexic. But he is perhaps the most reliable man I have ever known. He has had a wonderful life so far, outstanding wife and children, chief executive of a multibillion dollar corporation. …you simply can't count on your other handicaps to hold you back if you persist in being reliable.”

*Source: [How to Guarantee a Life of Misery](https://jamesclear.com/great-speeches/how-to-guarantee-a-life-of-misery-by-charlie-munger)*

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

Do you really need to think more, or is it simply a matter of doing the work?

Until next week,

James Clear  
*Author of the New York Times bestselling book, [Atomic Habits](https://atomichabits.com)*  
*Creator of [The Habits Academy](https://habitsacademy.com/) and the [Habit Journal](https://jamesclear.com/habit-journal)*

P.S. [True](https://jamesclear.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/true.png).