# 3-2-1: On taking action, tips for writers, and good relationships

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

I.

“If you haven’t started, then taking action is more important than finding a better strategy.

If you’re already taking action, then ensuring you’re working on the right thing is more important than working harder.

Your effort sets your floor. Your strategy sets your ceiling.”

---

II.

“A few tips on how to be a better writer:

– write about what fascinates you  
– make one point per sentence  
– use stories to make your point  
– cut extra words like “really” and “very”  
– read the whole thing out loud  
– post publicly (you’ll try harder when you know others will read it)

And finally, be more thoughtful about what you consume. The quality of ideas you put in determines the quality of ideas you put out.”

---

III.

A short idea from [*Atomic Habits*](https://atomichabits.com):

“Your outcomes are a lagging measure of your habits. Your net worth is a lagging measure of your financial habits. Your weight is a lagging measure of your eating habits. Your knowledge is a lagging measure of your learning habits. Your clutter is a lagging measure of your cleaning habits. You get what you repeat.”

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

Widely-respected investor **Charlie Munger** on how to avoid falling victim to intense ideology and unclear thinking:

“I have what I call an ‘iron prescription' that helps me keep sane when I drift toward preferring one intense ideology over another. I feel that I'm not entitled to have an opinion unless I can state the arguments against my position better than the people who are in opposition. I think that I'm qualified to speak only when I've reached that state…

“That is probably too tough for most people, although I hope it won't ever become too tough for me… This business of not drifting into extreme ideology is very, very important in life. If you want to end up wise, heavy ideology is very likely to prevent that outcome.”​

*Source: [Poor Charlie's Almanack: The Wit and Wisdom of Charles T. Munger](https://jamesclear.com/book/poor-charlies-almanack)*

---

II.

Best-selling author **Anne Lamott** on good marriages and good friendships:

“A good marriage is one in which each spouse secretly thinks he or she got the better deal, and this is true also of our friendships.”

*Source: [Help, Thanks, Wow](https://jamesclear.com/book/help-thanks-wow)*

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

Am I happy with the tradeoffs I am making in my life right now?

Until next week,

James Clear  
*Author of the New York Times bestselling book, [Atomic Habits](https://atomichabits.com/ "Atomic Habits")*  
*Creator of [The Habits Academy](https://habitsacademy.com/ "The Habits Academy") and the [Habit Journal](https://jamesclear.com/habit-journal "Habit Journal")*