# 3-2-1: On kindness, real wealth, and earning love and respect

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

I.

“Compliment others more.

You’ll barely remember you did it, but the other person may never forget that you did.

Kindness has unlimited upside.”

[Share this on Twitter](https://ctt.ac/mQjPn)

---

II.

“A little secret:

You don't need the right answer to start. You can start by asking a question. Simply asking, “How can I be a better friend?” or “How can I be a healthy person?” will call forth answers naturally.

In the beginning, just repeating the question is enough.”

---

III.

“Real wealth is not about money.

Real wealth is:  
-not having to go to meetings  
-not having to spend time with jerks  
-not being locked into status games  
-not feeling like you have to say “yes”  
-not worrying about others claiming your time and energy

Real wealth is about freedom. Money can help achieve these things, but there are plenty of people who make lots of money yet aren't free.”

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

**Harry Browne**, an American writer and politician, in a letter to his daughter on Christmas:

“I want to give you something that will stay with you for more than a few months or years. I want to give you a gift that might remind you of me every Christmas.

“If I could give you just one thing, I’d want it to be a simple truth that took me many years to learn. If you learn it now, it may enrich your life in hundreds of ways. And it may prevent you from facing many problems that have hurt people who have never learned it. The truth is simply this: No one owes you anything.  
…

“You owe it to yourself to be the best person possible. Because if you are, others will want to be with you, want to provide you with the things you want in exchange for what you’re giving to them. Some people will choose not to be with you for reasons that have nothing to do with you. When that happens, look elsewhere for the relationships you want. Don’t make someone else’s problem your problem.

“Once you learn that you must earn the love and respect of others, you’ll never expect the impossible and you won’t be disappointed. Others don’t have to share their property with you, nor their feelings or thoughts. If they do, it’s because you’ve earned these things. And you have every reason to be proud of the love you receive, your friends’ respect, the property you’ve earned. But don’t ever take them for granted. If you do, you could lose them. They’re not yours by right; you must always earn them.”

*Source: [A Gift for My Daughter](https://www.harrybrowne.org/articles/GiftDaughter.htm)*

---

II.

**Robert Pirsig**, an American philosopher and author:

“The place to improve the world is first in one's own heart and head and hands, and then work outward from there.”

*Source: [Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0060839872/ref=as_li_qf_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=jamesclearema-20&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=0060839872&linkId=e7dce9cb96c8f0b53936d208eb57a330)*

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

Over the last 10 years, what has become more important to you? What has become less important?

Until next week,

James Clear  
*Author of the New York Times bestselling book, [Atomic Habits](https://atomichabits.com/)*  
*Creator of [The Habits Academy](https://habitsacademy.com/) and the [Habit Journal](https://jamesclear.com/habit-journal)*