# 3-2-1: Being yourself, feeling unqualified, and win-win relationships

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

I.

“Always be prepared to absorb a big hit.

Always be focused enough to create a big win.

Diversified enough to survive, concentrated enough to matter.”

*(*[*Share this on Twitter*](https://ctt.ac/Gn0e1)*)​*

---

​II.

“Being yourself is a continuous effort.

There is always another expectation placed upon you, another person pulling you toward their preferences, another nudge from society to act a certain way.

It's a daily battle to be yourself, not merely what the world wants you to be.”

---

III.

“Don’t feel qualified? Nobody does.

You can only be qualified to do that which you have already accomplished or trained for.

Anything new is accomplished by unqualified people.”

*(*[*Share this on Twitter*](https://ctt.ac/887aT)*)​*

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

A **Hindu proverb** on the many ways to win:

“There are hundreds of paths up the mountain, all leading in the same direction, so it doesn't matter which path you take. The only one wasting time is the one who runs around and around the mountain, telling everyone that his or her path is wrong.”

---

​II.

**Don Herold**, a humorist and cartoonist, on how he'd live differently:

“If I had my life to live over I'd try to make more mistakes next time. I would relax. I would limber up. I would be sillier than I have been this trip. I know of very few things that I would take seriously. I would be crazier. I would be less hygienic. I would take more chances. I would take more trips. I would climb more mountains, and swim more rivers. I would burn up more gasoline. I would eat more ice cream and less bran. I would have more actual troubles and fewer imaginary ones. You see, I am one of those fellows who live prudently and prophylactically and sensibly and sanely, hour after hour, day after day. Oh, I have had my moments, and if I had it to do over again, I'd have more of them a lot more of them. In fact, I'd try to have nothing else. Just moments, one after another, instead of living so many years, so many years ahead every day.

I have been one of those persons who never goes anywhere without a thermometer, a hot-water bottle, a gargle, a raincoat, and a parachute. If I had it to do over, I would go places and do things and travel lighter than I have.

If I had my life to live over, I would start barefooted earlier in the spring and stay that way later in the fall. I would play hookey more. I wouldn't make such good grades except by accident. I would have more dogs. I would have more sweethearts. I would keep later hours. I would have more headaches. I would fish more. I would go to more circuses. I would go to more dances. I would ride on more merry-go-rounds. I'd pick more daisies.”

*Source: [I'd Pick More Daisies](https://www.google.com/books/edition/The_Journal_of_Health_and_Physical_Educa/_RdMAAAAYAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=1&bsq=%22I%27d%20Pick%20More%20Daisies%22)*

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

Which of my relationships are win-win? Which of my relationships are one-sided?

Until next week,

James Clear  
​*Author of the multi-million-copy bestseller,*[*Atomic Habits*](https://atomichabits.com/)*​  
Creator of the*[*Habit Journal*](https://jamesclear.com/habit-journal)*​*

​

p.s. [France is bacon](https://jamesclear.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/france-is-bacon.png).