# 3-2-1: Lucky opportunities, aging, and productivity

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

I.

“Lucky opportunities tend to be stumbled upon, not handed out.

If you're waiting for someone to hand deliver an excellent opportunity to you, it's unlikely to happen. But if you are exploring and moving—if you're in the mix and engaged—then you'll stumble upon many opportunities.

The active mind comes across a lot. Keep tilling the soil and you will occasionally unearth something wonderful.”

---

​II.

“Many times in life the decision is not whether to do one thing or another, but when to emphasize one aspect over another.

Rest or train? Research or write? Diversify or concentrate?

Opposite answers can both be right. The question is: which one is the right answer for right now.”

---

III.

“Whatever age you are today, your future self would love to be it.

Most people do not consider 65 to be a young age, but when you're 75 you'd love to rewind to 65 and regain those years. Few people would describe 35 as your youth, but in your mid-50s your mid-30s will seem like the “young you.”

Today is a great opportunity, no matter your age. Looking back in a few years, today will seem like the time when you were young and full of potential or the moment when you could have started early or the turning point when you made a choice that benefited your future.

The moment in front of you right now is a good one. Make the most of it.”

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

Theoretical physicist **Lisa Randall** on looking beyond what we are familiar with:

“In the history of physics, every time we've looked beyond the scales and energies we were familiar with, we've found things that we wouldn't have thought were there. You look inside the atom and eventually you discover quarks. Who would have thought that? It's hubris to think that the way we see things is everything there is.”

*Source:* [*The Discover Interview: Lisa Randall*](https://www.discovermagazine.com/the-sciences/the-discover-interview-lisa-randall)

---

​II.

Psychotherapist and author **Charles Richards** on productivity:

“Don't be fooled by the calendar. There are only as many days in the year as you make use of. One person gets only a week's value out of a year while another gets a full year's value out of a week.”

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

What is one previous habit I'd like to reclaim?

What is one current habit I'd like to let go?

[Share this on Twitter](https://ctt.ac/Z1Non)

Until next week,

James Clear  
*Author of the #1 worldwide bestseller,* [*Atomic Habits*](https://atomichabits.com/)*​*   
*Creator of the* [*Habit Journal*](https://jamesclear.com/habit-journal)*​*

p.s. [Unconditional love](https://jamesclear.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Unconditional-love.png).