# 3-2-1: The value of reading one good book per year, and lessons on kindness and generosity

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

In honor of Father's Day coming up this weekend, here are three ideas I was taught by my dad (and the first was taught to him by my grandpa)…

I.

“You help people when they need help, not when you are ready to help them.”

---

​II.

“Many people care more about being right than being happy.”

---

III.

“You can be relaxed and dedicated. Just because you worry more, doesn't mean you care more.”

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

Business professor and writer, **Charlie Becker,** discusses the value of reading one good book per year:

“I have a friend who makes high six figures as an engineer. I once asked him his secret and he was like, “Honestly man, I just read one engineering textbook every year, which is one more book than everyone else I know reads.”

*Source:* [​*Twitter*​](https://twitter.com/charlesdbecker/status/1664725878830518273)

---

​II.

A short lesson about kindness and generosity:

“I heard my mom asking our neighbor for some salt. We had salt at home so I asked her why she was asking.

She told me, “They don't have much money and they sometimes ask us for things. So I asked for something small that wouldn't burden them. I want them to feel as if we needed them too. That way, it will be much easier for them to ask us for anything they need.”

*Source: I haven't found the original source for this one; if you know, please share.*

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

What is one activity you are naturally drawn to? Can you spend 5 minutes doing it today?

Until next week,

James Clear   
*Author of* [​*Atomic Habits*​](https://atomichabits.com/) *and* [​*keynote speaker​*](https://jamesclear.com/keynote-speaker)

p.s. [​What life will be like in 2030​](https://jamesclear.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Screen-Shot-2023-06-15-at-11.08.12-AM.png)…