# 3-2-1: How to win repeatedly, the value of books, and a simple way to prevent future problems

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

I.

“Goals are for people who care about winning once.

Systems are for people who care about winning repeatedly.”

[Share this on Twitter](https://ctt.ac/RyCX8)

---

​II.

“Work hard.

If results depend on effort, then you will carry yourself far.

If results depend on effort and luck, then you will have done what you can to influence the outcome.

And if results depend on luck alone, then the outcome is random, but you will have won the battle with yourself.”

---

III.

“One version of confidence is: *I've got this figured out.*

Another version is: *I can figure this out.*

The first is arrogant and close-minded. The second is humble and open-minded.

Be humble about what you know, but confident about what you can learn.”

[Share this on Twitter](https://ctt.ac/JVq24)

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

Poet and professor **Anne Barngrover** on time:

“Time passes whether I stand still or move.”

*Source:* ​*On Maps*​ (*AGNI 97*)​

​II.

**Gene Roddenberry,** television screenwriter and creator of *Star Trek*, on the value of reading books:

“I consider reading the greatest bargain in the world. A shelf of books is a shelf of many lives and ideas and imaginations which the reader can enjoy whenever he wishes and as often as he wishes. Instead of experiencing just one life, the book-lover can experience hundreds or even thousands of lives. He can live any kind of adventure in the world. Books are his time machine into the past and also into the future. Books are his “transporter” by which he can beam instantly to any part of the universe and explore what he finds there. Books are an instrument by which he can become any person for a while—a man, a woman, a child, a general, a farmer, a detective, a king, a doctor, anyone.

Great books are especially valuable because a great book often contains within its covers the wisdom of a man or woman's whole lifetime. But the true lover of books enjoys all kinds of books, even some nonsense now and then, because enjoying nonsense from others can teach us to also laugh at ourselves. A person who does not learn to laugh at his own problems and weaknesses and foolishness can never be a truly educated or a truly happy person. Also, probably the same thing could be said of a person who does not enjoy learning and growing all his life.”

*Source:* [​*Letters to Star Trek*](https://amzn.to/47eJL9h)

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

A simple question that can prevent a lot of future headaches:

What is not being said right now that needs to be said? What problems could we avoid in the future, if only we had the courage to talk about them now?

[Share this on Twitter](https://ctt.ac/605V5)

Until next week,

James Clear *Author of* [​*Atomic Habits*​](https://atomichabits.com/) *and* [​*keynote speaker​*](https://jamesclear.com/keynote-speaker)

p.s. [​The Count of Monte Cristo walks into a job interview​…](https://jamesclear.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/Screenshot-2023-07-30-at-5.50.15-PM.png)