# 3-2-1: How to build a business, the paradoxes of life, and finding happiness nearby

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

I.

“People often think that something “far off” will make them happy. That moving to a new place or getting a different job or meeting someone new will change how they feel. But happiness will always be withheld if you believe it is somewhere else. The secret is to find happiness in the people and places that are close to you. See the beauty in the things that are nearby.”

---

​II.

“Who does the work? Who bears the consequences? Who reaps the rewards? When the incentives are aligned, it's the same person.”

[Share this on Twitter](https://ctt.ac/01Yk6)

---

III.

One way I think about my writing:

“My approach is to empower, not to prescribe. I'm not interested in telling you which habits you should build or which choices you should make. You know what works for your life and circumstances better than I ever could. Instead, I want to equip and empower you with ideas and strategies so you can make your own choices and do the things you want to do. I'll give you the hammer, you decide where to drive the nail.”

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

Lawyer **Julie Yip-Williams,** who was born blind, on the paradoxes of life:

“I do not have the answer to the question of why, at least not now and not in this life. But I do know that there is incredible value in pain and suffering, if you allow yourself to experience it, to cry, to feel sorrow and grief, to hurt. Walk through the fire and you will emerge on the other end, whole and stronger. I promise. You will ultimately find truth and beauty and wisdom and peace. You will understand that nothing lasts forever, not pain, or joy. You will understand that joy cannot exist without sadness. Relief cannot exist without pain. Compassion cannot exist without cruelty. Courage cannot exist without fear. Hope cannot exist without despair. Wisdom cannot exist without suffering. Gratitude cannot exist without deprivation. Paradoxes abound in this life. Living is an exercise in navigating within them.

I was deprived of sight. And yet, that single unfortunate physical condition changed me for the better. Instead of leaving me wallowing in self-pity, it made me more ambitious. It made me more resourceful. It made me smarter. It taught me to ask for help, to not be ashamed of my physical shortcoming. It forced me to be honest with myself and my limitations, and eventually to be honest with others. It taught me strength and resilience.”

*Source: Letter to her daughters (July 2017) via* [​*Letters of Note*​](https://news.lettersofnote.com/p/live-a-life-worth-living)

​II.

Entrepreneur and author **Derek Sivers** on how to build a business:

“Never forget that absolutely everything you do is for your customers. Make every decision — even decisions about whether to expand the business, raise money, or promote someone — according to what's best for your customers.

If you're ever unsure what to prioritize, just ask your customers the open-ended question, “How can I best help you now?” Then focus on satisfying those requests…

It's counterintuitive, but the way to grow your business is to focus entirely on your existing customers. Just thrill them, and they'll tell everyone.”

*Source:* [​*Anything You Want*](https://amzn.to/3sfIVsD)

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

Two questions at the center of improvement:

How quickly can you get started?

How quickly can you learn from your mistakes?

[Share this on Twitter](https://ctt.ac/Rg63H)

Until next week,

James Clear  
 *Author of* [​*Atomic Habits*​](https://atomichabits.com/) *and* [​*keynote speaker​*](https://jamesclear.com/keynote-speaker)

p.s. ​[When Cinderella gets ready for a date​…](https://jamesclear.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Screenshot-2023-08-23-at-11.05.42-PM.png)