# 3-2-1: On having enough, the power of books, and a recipe for success

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

I.

“Enough courage to get started + enough sense to focus on something you’re naturally suited for + enough persistence to stay in the game long enough to catch a few lucky breaks + a lot of hard work. There’s your recipe.”

[Share this on Twitter](https://ctt.ac/839eZ)

---

​II.

“People spend a lot of time talking about other people's bodies, gossiping about other people's relationships, critiquing other people's business, etc.

Keep your eyes on your own paper. Work on your body. Nurture your relationships. Improve your business.

We all have plenty to improve.”

---

III.

“Many people view their habits and routines as obstacles or, at the very least, obligations to get through. Making the morning coffee, driving your kids to the next activity, preparing the next meal—we often see our routines as chores to be completed.

But these are not moments to be dismissed. They are life. Making coffee can be a peaceful ritual—perhaps even a fulfilling one—if done with care rather than rushed to completion. It’s about the amount of attention you devote to these simple moments, and whether you choose to appreciate them or bulldoze through them on the way to the next task.

Find the beauty and joy in your daily rituals and you will find beauty and joy in your daily life. To love your habits is to love your days, and to love your days is to love your life.”

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

**Brunello Cucinelli,** now a billionaire entrepreneur, on his childhood growing up on a rural farm without electricity or running water:

“Life with my parents and the other family members was natural and pleasant. Mutual support happened spontaneously and guaranteed the survival of people as well as of material and spiritual values. Until a few years ago, those bonds were so strong in the rural culture that they safeguarded ideals. The willingness to make sacrifices for others, to be able to wait for a reward, the devotion to work; for me, these are everlasting values. The joy of working together and sharing what was being produced turned work into a joyful liturgy, not a punishment. We all knew what was being done in the fields, in the garden, in the pastures, at home; planting, cultivating, raising children and helping parents. There was no wealth, but we were happy. And it makes me think: having enough is itself a form of wealth.”

*Source: The Dream of Solomeo*

​II.

Author **EB White** on the power of books:

“Books hold most of the secrets of the world, most of the thoughts that men and women have had. And when you are reading a book, you and the author are alone together—just the two of you. A library is a good place to go when you feel unhappy, for there, in a book, you may find encouragement and comfort. A library is a good place to go when you feel bewildered or undecided, for there, in a book, you may have your question answered. Books are good company, in sad times and happy times, for books are people—people who have managed to stay alive by hiding between the covers of a book.”

*Source:* [​*Letters to the Children of Troy*](https://library.biblioboard.com/viewer/c7f90d47-3349-45aa-91ee-4c2d24dfb300)

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

What is the 2-minute version of the task I'm avoiding?

[Share this on Twitter](https://ctt.ac/M_ePz)

Until next week,

James Clear   
*Author of* [​*Atomic Habits*​](https://atomichabits.com/) *and* [​*keynote speaker​*​](https://jamesclear.com/keynote-speaker)

p.s. ​[My wife whenever we have friends over](https://jamesclear.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/Screenshot-2023-09-07-at-9.38.00-AM.png)​…

p.p.s. Shout out to [​](https://twitter.com/allymexicotte/status/1697732470857203888)[Ally and ChatGPT](https://jamesclear.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/Screenshot-2023-09-07-at-9.38.23-AM.png)[​](https://twitter.com/allymexicotte/status/1697732470857203888) (and me, sort of) for coming up with this week