# 3-2-1: On enthusiasm, playing to your strengths, and living one day at a time

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

I.

“A simple rule for life that rarely fails:

Optimize for enthusiasm. Make as many choices as you can that leave you feeling energetic and interested. Pay attention to when you have the urge to pursue or participate in something and do more of it.”

---

​II.

“There is an enormous difference between working hard on something that is a grind and working hard on something that comes easily to you.

Exceptional results almost exclusively happen when you work hard on an area where you have some natural aptitude. Play to your strengths.”

---

III.

“Education teaches you to analyze. Entrepreneurship teaches you to create.

The educated mindset is great at dissecting and criticizing. What did Shakespeare mean here? What were the major forces of this historical period? What is the limiting reagent in this chemical reaction?

The entrepreneurial mindset is great at building and improving. Design a better product. Craft a new marketing plan. Stop talking about what's wrong and make something better.

The trick is to keep learning, but to never lose your ability to build.”

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

Novelist **Robert Louis Stevenson** on living one day at a time:

“Anyone can carry his burden, however hard, until nightfall. Anyone can do his work, however hard, for one day. Anyone can live sweetly, patiently, lovingly, purely, till the sun goes down. And this is all life really means.”

*Source:*[*An Apology for Idlers*](https://preview.convertkit-mail4.com/click/dpheh0hzhm/aHR0cHM6Ly9hbXpuLnRvLzQ0bXdia3g=)​[​](https://preview.convertkit-mail4.com/click/dpheh0hzhm/aHR0cHM6Ly9hbXpuLnRvLzNVb3BNelg=)*​*

---

​II.

Theologian and philosopher **Saint Augustine** on doing what you can for who you know:

“Since you cannot do good to all, you are to pay special attention to those who, by the accidents of time, or place, or circumstances, are brought into closer connection with you.”

*Source:*[*De Doctrina Christiana*](https://preview.convertkit-mail4.com/click/dpheh0hzhm/aHR0cHM6Ly9hbXpuLnRvLzRrWU1aNlk=)

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

Your environment whispers suggestions all day long—eat this, click that, sit here. Look around you right now. What small change could you make to your surroundings that would steer you toward good habits and away from distractions?

Until next week,

James Clear [​](https://preview.convertkit-mail4.com/click/dpheh0hzhm/aHR0cHM6Ly9qYW1lc2NsZWFyLmNvbS9hdG9taWMtaGFiaXRz)​  
​*Author of*[*Atomic Habits*](https://preview.convertkit-mail4.com/click/dpheh0hzhm/aHR0cHM6Ly9qYW1lc2NsZWFyLmNvbS9hdG9taWMtaGFiaXRz)*​  
Cofounder of*[*Authors Equity*](https://preview.convertkit-mail4.com/click/dpheh0hzhm/aHR0cHM6Ly9hdXRob3JzZXF1aXR5LmNvbS8=)​

p.s. [The magic of ocean life](https://jamesclear.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Screenshot-2025-06-19-at-5.49.05-AM.png).