# 3-2-1: On what love looks like, the courage to eliminate, and where the grass is greener

## 3 IDEAS FROM ME

I.

“Greatness takes guts. And often, it's the courage to eliminate the things you can do fairly well so you have the capacity to do one thing exceptionally well. Have the courage to take more off your plate.”

---

​II.

“Many situations in life are similar to going on a hike: the view changes once you start walking.

You don't need all the answers right now. New paths will reveal themselves if you have the courage to get started.”

---

III.

“The grass is only greener if you're obsessed.

It's easy to talk yourself into a new opportunity because everyone else is excited about it or the upside seems high, but the energy that comes from hype is different than the energy you need to make something part of your daily lifestyle.

It might be a good opportunity on paper, but if it isn't the type of thing you want to spend all day working on, then you probably won't stick with it. And if you won't stick with it, then it's not a good opportunity for you.”

## 2 QUOTES FROM OTHERS

I.

**Philip Dormer Stanhope,** the 4th Earl of Chesterfield, on habits:

“Habits are either the best or the worst things in the world; they either carry us to heaven or hurl us to hell. Form only those that will prove an honor to you.”

*Source: Letters to His Son (1746-1770)*​​​

---

​II.

Writer **Marlon James** on love:

“Love isn't saying, I love you, but calling to say, did you eat?”

*Source:* [​*Interview with Marlon James*​](https://maudnewton.com/2009/04/marlon-james-on-bossy-female-characters-and-more/)

## 1 QUESTION FOR YOU

Today is a good day to reclaim some of your time and energy. What project, commitment, or responsibility have you known for a while you should let go of (or wrap up), but still haven't?

Until next week,

James Clear [​​​](https://jamesclear.com/atomic-habits)   
*Author of* [​*Atomic Habits*​](https://jamesclear.com/atomic-habits)  
*Cofounder of* [​*Authors Equity*​](https://authorsequity.com/)

p.s. [​Imagine what Black Friday was like for the elves​](https://jamesclear.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/12/Screenshot-2025-12-04-at-11.30.06-AM.png)…